ARTISTS STATEMENT ON CHAPTER 3 AND THE RAINEBOW ENGINES

CHAPTER 3 IS THE NEXT PART OF AN ONGOING WEB SERIES I'M WORKING ON AT WWW.PALEMASKPRESS.COM. HOWEVER, UNLIKE THE CHAPTERS HOSTED ON THE WEBSITE, THIS VERSION IS BEING BUILT AS MORE OF A SIDE SCROLLER WITH A FOCUS ON STORYTELLING OVER GAMEPLAY. THE RAINEBOW ENGINE WHICH RUNS THE GAME IS BUILT FROM ON THE P5 LIBRARY, ITSELF IS BEING DEVELOPED SO THAT I CAN REUSE AND BUILD UPON IT FOR FUTURE CHAPTERS.

THE MAIN VISION FOR THE STORY IS ABOUT A GIRL NAMED CHLOE WHO, DUE TO ENTERING AN UNFORTUNATE BATHROOM, IS BROUGHT TO AN ALTERNATE REALITY WHERE SHE TRIES TO GET HOME. THE STORY DRAWS INFLUENCE FROM JOHN DIES AT THE END, HITCHICKERS GUIDE TO THE GALAXY, ALICE IN WONDERLAND, THE WRITINGS OF HP LOVECRAFT, AND VARIOUS BOOKS FROM HUNTER S. THOMPSON (MOST NOTABLY FEAR AND LOATHING IN LAS VEGAS). AS FOR THE AESTHETIC OF THE PIECE, IT IS A PERSONAL STYLE I DEVELOPED THAT I'M DESCRIBING AS HORROR PUNK (AN ADAPTION FROM GENRES SUCH AS STEAM PUNK OR CYBERPUNK). HORROR PUNK FOCUSES ON TEXTURED IMAGERY, MIXED MEDIA, HARD CONTRAST, AND BIZARRE ELEMENTS TO CREATE THE SENSE OF A UNCANNY FEVER DREAM FROM 90'S PULP COMICS. THE ART STYLE DOESN'T LOOK TO ILLICIST FEAR FROM THE AUDIENCE NECESSARILY, BUT IT IS SUPPOSE TO BE UNFAMILIAR WITH A SENSE OF NOSTALGIA YOU CAN'T QUITE PUT YOUR FINGER ON. FOR THE MUSIC AND SOUND, EVERYTHING WAS MADE BY MYSELF AS WELL AND I HOPE IN THE NEXT FEW WEEKS I'LL BE ABLE TO BUILD A BIGGER LIBRARY TO PULL FROM. AND FINALLY ON THE TECHNICAL FRONT, I BUILT EVERYTHING FROM THE P5 ENGINE WITH THE EXCEPTION OF PHYSICS AND MATH FOR WHICH I CREDIT STEPHANIE RANCOURT. THE ENGINE IS MODULAR AND ALLOWS TO THE ADDING AND REMOVING OF COMPONENTS AT WILL AS WELL AS ALLOWING FOR DEVELOPMENT IN THE FUTURE.

I WILL BE WORKING ON THIS OVER THE SUMMER AND LIKELY PORTING IT ALL OVER TO UNITY, BUT THE WORK HERE LAYS THE FOUNDATION FOR CREATING MORE CONTENT FASTER IN THE FUTURE.
